# Python Basics

Generated by pretext:

The main source file is `source/main.ptx`.  This includes the other chapters of the book.

To compile the book as an accessible website, run `pretext build web` in a terminal from any directory of this project.

To preview your output, run `pretext view web`.

To deploy your output to GitHub pages, run `pretext deploy`.

To compile a pdf, run `pretext build print`.

---

Below you will find some advice for working with PreTeXt, including help with using the [PreTeXt Codespace](https://github.com/PreTeXtBook/pretext-codespace) online editor through GitHub if you don't want to install the required software on your own computer.


## Learning PreTeXt

See the [PreTeXt documentation](https://pretextbook.org/documentation.html) for links to a variety of resources.

We also recommend browsing through the [annotated sample article](https://pretextbook.org/examples/sample-article/annotated) and [annotated sample book](https://pretextbook.org/examples/sample-book/annotated/) if you want to find examples and see the PreTeXt source for those examples quickly.

## Using GitHub Codespaces

GitHub Codespaces are a way to set up your whole authoring system entirely in your browser.  In case you are not already reading this inside a codespace, you can create one specifically designed for authoring in PreTeXt by using [this template](https://github.com/PreTeXtBook/pretext-codespace).

### Important: how to save your files

The most important thing to remember when authoring in a codespace is that you are making all your edits on a *virtual machine* off in some remote server farm.  This means there is an extra step to save your files.  You can save files in the editor (in your browser), but this just saves them to that virtual machine.  To make sure you can access these files, even if the virtual machine goes away, you need to sync them to github.com.  This is done by *committing* your changes and then *pushing* those commits (or "syncing" them).  You might see a warning when you restart your codespace that you have "uncommitted changes" -- make sure you commit them when you are done working.

